# Penetrating Kidney Analysis
This repository contains code and data used for the analysis presented in the submitted manuscript 'Title TBD' by Glosser et al. 2025.

To clone this repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/jdpreston30/DTC-metabolomics-2025
cd DTC-metabolomics-2025
```

Make sure you have [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed. After cloning, you can open `source_code.R` in RStudio or your preferred IDE to begin the analysis.


## Requirements
- R version ≥ 4.3.1 is recommended for running all analyses in this repository
- Required Packages: dplyr, tidyr, readr, stringr
- All packages can be installed and loaded under the header “#* Dependencies" present on the first line of all R files.


## Files
All elements of the repository are listed below, along with a description and guide of each:
- `source_code.R`: This file is the main analysis script for the project. All data required to run the code are included as CSV or XLSX files in the main directory.

- `cleanup.R`: This file is the preprocessing script of all raw data used to create the feature tables present in the main directory. All raw data required to run the code, can be provided in a deidentified manner upon reasonable request (see below).

- `targeted_FT.csv` and `untargeted_FT.csv`: These files contain the combined feature tables (targeted and untargeted) produced from metabolomics analysis of the study samples using HILIC+ and C18- columns/modes.

- `tumor_pathology.xlsx`: This files all histopathological data for the study samples ('pathology' tab). It also includes a data dictionary for each respective histopathological variable ('dictionary' tab).

- `Outputs`: This folder contains all output data files generated by running the source code.

- `Figures.Prism`: This is a GraphPad Prism file used to create all figures in the manuscript.

## Accessing Raw Data
Raw data files are stored securely via OneDrive.
- Please request access by contacting me directly (joshua.preston@emory.edu)
- OR contact the corresponding author for permission
